---
title: "Related Incidents"
slug: "related-incidents"
excerpt: "View active related incidents across all services to gain helpful context during incident triage"
hidden: false
metadata: 
  title: "Related Incidents"
  description: "View active related incidents across all services to gain helpful context during incident triage"
  image: 
    0: "https://files.readme.io/1ed7f08-related-incidents-summary.png"
    1: "related-incidents-summary.png"
    2: 2077
    3: 418
    4: "#f9f5f5"
createdAt: "2020-04-21T21:16:46.446Z"
updatedAt: "2020-07-31T21:58:44.082Z"
---
The Related Incidents feature provides incident responders with the suggested 20 most recent Related Incidents that are impacting other responders and PagerDuty services. This feature uses a completely online and real-time machine learning algorithm as well as your service dependency data to provide these insights, giving responders an at-a-glance-view of the full breadth and scope of incident impact. Related Incidents extends our machine learning capabilities beyond noise reduction, enriching incidents with deep contextual insights to help responders coordinate an effective team response and mitigate business disruption.

<Callout type="info" title="Info">
This feature is currently available as part of our [Digital Operations plan](https://www.pagerduty.com/pricing/) or can be purchased via [Event Intelligence](https://support.pagerduty.com/v1/docs/event-intelligence), an add-on to our Platform Team or Platform Business plans. If you would like to sign up for a trial of this and other Event Intelligence features, please [contact our Sales team](https://www.pagerduty.com/contact-us/#contact-sales).",
  "title": "Note
</Callout>


# View Related Incidents in the Web App

To view Related Incidents, click your desired incident’s **Title** to see the incident details page, and then select the **Related Incidents** tab. The Related Incidents tab uses Event Intelligence to display a list of incidents on your PagerDuty account that are potentially related to the incident you are currently investigating.
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/75c3f2b-related-incidents-overview.png",
        "related-incidents-overview.png",
        1882,
        1294,
        "#f8f9fb"
      ],
      "caption": "Related Incidents Tab"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
The Related Incidents tab includes the following information:

* **Related Incidents - `#`**: A total count of related incidents.
* **Impact Summary**: A total list of impacted Responders, impacted Business Services and impacted Technical Services.
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/5cbd8f6-related-incidents-impact-summary.png",
        "related-incidents-impact-summary.png",
        1758,
        570,
        "#f7f8fb"
      ],
      "caption": "Related Incidents Impact Summary"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
* **List of Related Incidents on a Timeline**: Related Incidents on the timeline include the following:
* **Incident Details**: You may click on the Incident Title, # of Alerts, Assigned To User or Service to view more details. 
* **Dependency Pane**: If incidents are related due to a Technical or Business Service dependency relationship, that dependency will be shown here. If there is no service dependency relationship for that incident, you can click **Add One** to define your service dependencies. Related Incidents with no dependencies are those that were sorted via Machine Learning. Read our section on [types of Related Incidents](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/related-incidents#service-dependency-related-incidents) to learn more.
* **Information Icon**: View why the incident was suggested as related by clicking on the :fa-info-circle: icon in the top right corner of the Related Incidents card.
* **Thumbs Up/Thumbs Down**: Indicate whether you believe an incident is or isn’t related to the one you are investigating, and give our machine learning model feedback. Feedback is real-time, completely processed online, and it is applied to suggest future Related Incidents. You can click the numbers below the thumbs up/down to view who voted for each option. Note: the thumbs up/thumbs down component is only visible on incidents generated by the machine learning algorithm, and it takes about 5–10 human inputs to train our algorithm on a new behavior.
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/d1a8e49-related-incidents-incident-timeline.png",
        "related-incidents-incident-timeline.png",
        1816,
        1240,
        "#f8f9fa"
      ],
      "caption": "Related Incidents Timeline"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
# Related Incident Types

There are two types of Related Incidents: 

* [Machine Learning Based Related Incidents](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/related-incidents#machine-learning-based-related-incidents)
* [Dependency-Aware Related Incidents](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/related-incidents#dependency-aware-related-incidents)

## Machine Learning Based Related Incidents

Machine Learning Based Related Incidents are determined by three main factors:

* How close in time the incidents were created.
* How related the alert metadata is.
* Human response behavior: Thumbs up/thumbs down and/or [merging incidents](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/editing-incidents#merging-incidents) across services.

You can identify Machine Learning Based Related Incidents by clicking on the :fa-info-circle: icon or by the presence of the thumbs up/thumbs down feedback mechanism.

## Dependency-Aware Related Incidents

Some Related Incidents may be determined by your [Technical or Business Service dependencies](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/service-profile#service-dependencies). When two incidents are triggered within five minutes of each other and one service is directly dependent on the other, these incidents will be marked as related. Similarly, if incidents occur within this time frame and share a parent Business Service, they will also be marked as related. These service relationships will be identified in the **Dependency** pane on individual Related Incident cards.
[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/0861471-related-incidents-dependency-pane.png",
        "related-incidents-dependency-pane.png",
        1018,
        245,
        "#f4eff1"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
# View Related Incidents in the Mobile App
To view Related Incidents in the mobile app, tap your desired **incident title** to enter the incident details screen. If there are Related Incidents, at the bottom of the incidents details screen you will see a **blue banner** which prompts you to view these Related Incidents.



[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/10f128c-related-incidents-view-mobile-app.png",
        "related-incidents-view-mobile-app.png",
        747,
        1297,
        "#181a21"
      ],
      "sizing": "80",
      "caption": "Related Incidents on the incident details screen in the Mobile App"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]

[block:image]
{
  "images": [
    {
      "image": [
        "https://files.readme.io/f10c3d1-related-incidents-timeline-mobile-app.jpeg",
        "related-incidents-timeline-mobile-app.jpeg",
        745,
        1289,
        "#3c3d41"
      ],
      "sizing": "80",
      "caption": "View the Related Incidents timeline in the Mobile App"
    }
  ]
}
[/block]
#FAQ

##Related Incidents vs. Past Incidents: What’s the difference?

[Past Incidents](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/similar-incidents) (previously named Similar Incidents) is a tab that displays *resolved* incidents from the past that were *on the same service* that may be similar to the current triggered incident. Related Incidents uses Event Intelligence to determine  what other *active* incidents *going on in real-time* across *all* services on your account are related, to help you better understand the breadth and scope of impact.

##Why don’t I see any related incidents? 

Here are some common reasons:
* **The incident seems unique**: The algorithm was unable to find another recent incident with metadata related to this one. If it identifies any while this incident is still going on, they will appear in the Related Incidents tab.
* **There isn’t enough data yet**: Your account doesn’t have enough data yet to start finding relationships among incidents. Continue to use PagerDuty normally and related incidents will begin to appear.

##Why do my related incidents appear to have the same title?

The incident title is often determined by the title of the first alert created for a given incident. It is likely that our machine learning algorithm deemed that alerts created close in time and with the same title are related.

##Why am I seeing resolved related incidents?

Responders find it is useful to see recently resolved related incidents to gain additional context during major incident response. For example: who resolved the incident and what actions were taken to resolve it. 

##Why don’t I see incidents that are related on the same service?

This is by design. If you notice a high volume of related or duplicate incidents on a particular service, we recommend enabling [Intelligent Alert Grouping to reduce noise](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/intelligent-alert-grouping#section-recommended-services) on that service and prevent duplicate incidents from being created. 

##How do I configure Related Incidents?

This feature is available completely out of the box, and will begin working right away with no setup needed.

Please keep in mind that you must have access to the [Event Intelligence](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/event-intelligence) add-on product, or be on the Digital Operations plan to access this feature.

##How do I improve future Related Incidents results?

Our machine learning algorithm can be influenced by user feedback. The machine learning algorithm looks at human response behavior including thumbs up/down feedback as well as cross-service merges in order to improve future Related Incidents.